okay so this is a quick routine that you
can follow for sciatica low back pain
and general hip stiffness we're gonna
address all of that real quick here so
here we go just go ahead and lay down on
the floor all we're gonna do is start
with our figure four stretch you just
cross your ankle over your knee if you
feel the stretch already right here just
hold that right there but if you want to
deepen it further you can grab your leg
just like so
and holding and breathing i like to
breathe into the nose
and out through the mouth
it helps you relax
and just the more oxygen you can get
flowing through your body the better
the goal is to hold each stretch for
around 30 seconds it doesn't have to be
exactly 30 seconds it could be a little
under a little over but around 30
seconds is the goal let's switch sides
feet down on the ground again you could
pause right here if that's where you
feel the stretch but if not you can
deepen it
by pulling it in deeper just like so
breathing deeply while you hold the
stretch
shout out to the mismatch sucks
you should be feeling that stretch on
the outer side of your glute area that's
your piriformis muscle
your sciatic nerve runs right under that
muscle and when that area gets tight it
can pinch it in between the bone
and go ahead and bring those legs back
down go and sit yourself up we're going
to do a different stretch here all
you're going to do is cross your ankle
over your leg just like so
and if you feel the stretch you can just
hold it right here but if you're
flexible enough and you'd like to deepen
it you can also bring your elbow across
and twist your body
and again holding and breathing
you want to avoid pain while you stretch
pain is not good when you stretch
it's okay to feel slightly uncomfortable
or for it to feel intense but you want
to avoid pain
and only you can judge where that is for
you
and let's switch sides go ahead and
cross that other foot over
again you can just hold it right here if
you'd like or if you want to go deeper
into the stretch
bring that arm over and twist around
holding and breathing
so sciatica is caused by many different
things it can be
a bulging disc a herniated disc or it
could be just tight piriformis which is
piriformis syndrome
which is what we stretch for the figure
four stretch and what we're stretching
now
often times sciatica can heal itself as
long as you're moving go ahead and
switch it up and shake those legs out
so motion is lotion
motion is the big thing but you also
want to get um some stretches in which
is what we're doing right now
we're gonna do a hip stretch for the hip
flexor here
but um if you have sciatica generally
you're gonna be pretty tight so
when you push forward like this the goal
is usually to feel the stretch right
here but if you have a tight low back
you're probably going to feel it more
towards this area over here which is
great that's exactly where you want to
feel it if you have sciatica but if not
it's a hip flexor stretch holding and
breathing you're thinking about pushing
your hips down toward the ground
make sure your knee isn't going too far
past your toes so you don't want to look
like this
you want it to look closer to like that
and let's switch sides
bring that other leg forward push the
hips down to the ground holding and
breathing
again you're keeping up that intensity
but you still are avoiding pain
around 30 seconds is the goal
and come on out of that stretch
we're going to do one more but this time
it's not going to be a stretch it's
going to be a little bit more of an
active um more
you can kind of think of it as a workout
more like physical therapy all you're
going to do is
be on all fours just like this and
you're just going to lift one leg
straight out and hold it right there
you're going to hold it for around 10
seconds
five
six
seven
eight
nine
ten bring it down go ahead and sit
yourself back if you can you're gonna
hold this for 10 seconds
nine
eight
seven
six
five
four
three
two
one lift yourself up or and do the other
side lift the other leg out and hold for
ten
nine
eight
seven
six
five
four
three
two
one bring that leg down again resting
back for ten
nine
eight
seven
six five
four
three
two
one and lift yourself up good
lay down on your back
we're gonna do one more stretch and then
we're done it's one more stretch on both
sides you're just going to bring one
knee into the chest like so
and the other leg all the way out on the
ground breathing deeply
think about your back pressing down into
the ground you're letting it sink into
the floor almost like you're melting
just let your body relax as much as
possible
and let's switch sides go ahead and
bring the other knee in straighten the
other leg all the way out holding and
breathing
[Music]
this is the kind of stretching routine
that you're going to want to do
close to every day
and um if it's just normal sciatica it
should clear up pretty quickly go and
bring the legs down to the ground
and you're done
great job stay flexy